1) if you want to use import the file type is module , if require then 'commonjs' 

2) Setup project - use 'prettier' for configurations 
        - ".prettierrc " is the file for writing configuration 
        - ".prettierignore" dont touch the files written inside it 
    git init command for storing in git 
        - .gitignore file ( node modules , .env)

3) for constant restarting of your project
        - use nodemon as dev to constantly restart your server

4) install dotenv  - it is used to store configuration and sensitive info 
        - import it on the main entry page 
        - dotenv.config method : search for the env file (path : "./.env)
        - process.env.name : is used to get any variable from the envfile

5) mkdir - used to create folder 
   cd - goes into the folder 
   cd.. - to go outside of the folder

6) index.js should be inside src 

7) Express - npm install express 
        - npm install express --save 
        - express is the node js web application framework , designed for building web applications and apis
        (Routing) - refers to how an application responds to client requests to specific endpoints using diff http methods
        routing methods are - 
                a) get - used to retrieve data from the server 
                        eg - "/blog" used to retrieve blog post 
                b) post - used when the clients sends new data to the server 
                        eg - user sign in  , create blog 
                c) put - means updating existing data 
                        eg - update profile , change password 
                d) delete - used to delete data ; 
        how it is used 
                - import express from "express" 
                  const app = express() 
                  app.get("/" , (req , res) => {
                        res.send("this is the home page")
                  })
                  app.listen(Port(.env) ,()=>{
                        console.log(`server is listening at the port ${Port}) ; 
                  })
8) Postman - we use postman to test our backend apis without needing a frontend

9) index.js is the main entry point so move express and its code to app.js
        - export default app from app.js and import it into index.js

10) Api response - class is a utility class that helps you send consistent API responses from your Express server.

11) constant.js file - this file is used to define constants (fixed values) that   are used throughout your application.
        Instead of writing strings like "admin" or "todo" everywhere, you define them once and reuse them.
        This helps avoid typos, makes the code easier to maintain, and keeps values consistent.
 
        simply use - UserRolesEnum.ADMIN 
        store them in array for validation 

12) Mongoose is an ODM (object data Modeling Library) . It helps nodejs application communicate with mongoDB
        why async await :
                Connecting to a database takes time because:
                Your app contacts the MongoDB server.
                MongoDB verifies the connection.
                A network request is involved.
                So mongoose.connect() returns a Promise, which is why we use async/await 

13) HealthCheckApi - it is a simple api used to check whether the server is running and serving the requests or not 
                   - used by deployment platforms and monitering systems can periodically to check the system is running ,
                   is the database accessible 

        to avoid too many try and catch
         we use ' async handlers ` - it is used when a route has to do something that takes time
                                    then we will use async and await , we have to use try and catch for error 
                                    so to avoid this at every route we use async handler 

                                        const asyncHandler = (requestHandler) =>{
                                                return ( req , res , next) => {
                                                        Promise.resolve(requestHandler(req, res, next))
                                                        .catch(next) ; 
                                                }
                                        }

14) bcyrpt - hashes password . If someone steals your database , they cannot directly see user's password 
        use a pre function before saving user data , in which if a user has changed password then we will hash it .
        userSchema.pre("save", async function(){
                if(!this.isModified("password") return next()) 
                this.password = await bcyrpt.hash(this.password , 10) 
                next() ; 
        })
    Schema - tells that how every user should look like 

15)Mailgen-
        Mailgen helps you generate a nice HTML email from a JavaScript object.
        Nodemailer
        Nodemailer actually sends the email through an SMTP server.

        

16) Validation - in project is the process of checking whether incoming data is correct, complete, safe, and follows your application's rules before using or storing it.

can use zod or express validator 

Express Validator : is a library validates data coming into your express backend 
        this will be store in the index.js inside validator 
        where we install express validator and import body from it , then we create rules and put them into the routes .

        In the middleware write the validate function which collects all the error and store them into a stack

17) Login user with token and Cookie Data 
        - take data from the user 
        - validate 
        - check if the user exist
        - if the password is correct 
        - Generate Tokens
        - send tokens in cookies

        write the login inside the auth controller

18)Auth middleware is used to check whether a user is authenticated before allowing them to access a protected route.
        For example:
        User → Request → Auth Middleware → Controller
                        ↓
                Is user logged in?
                        ↙       ↘
                Yes         No
                ↓           ↓
                Allow access   Reject
        Usually it:
        Gets the JWT/token from the request.
        Verifies the token.
        Identifies the user.
        Attaches the user information to req.
        Allows the request to continue with next().
19) loging out user
        If you're using JWT authentication, logout depends on how you store the token.
        If you're using Access Token + Refresh Token
        A common approach is:
        Find the logged-in user.
        Remove/invalidate their refresh token in the database.
        Clear the authentication cookies.
        Return success.
        Example:

20)email verification-
What the controller does
Token from URL
      ↓
Find user with that token
      ↓
Is token valid + not expired?
      ↓
     Yes
      ↓
isEmailVerified = true
      ↓
Remove verification token
      ↓
Save user
So, controller = the actual logic that verifies the email.

21)resend email verification token-
        Approach
Get the user
Usually from req.user after authentication middleware.
Or find them using their email.
Check if the user exists
If not → return User not found.
Check if already verified
If isEmailVerified === true → don't send another email.
Generate a new verification token
Use crypto.randomBytes().
Save the new token + expiry in the database
For example, make it valid for 24 hours.
Create the verification URL
yourwebsite.com/verify-email/<token>
Send the email
Use your email service/function.
Return success response
In short
Request
  ↓
Find User
  ↓
Already verified?
  ↓ No
Generate new token
  ↓
Save token + expiry
  ↓
Send email
  ↓
Success response
The main idea is: generate a fresh token → store it → send it to the user's email.


22)Refresh Access Token — Detailed Flow
1. User logs in
       ↓
2. Server creates:
   Access Token + Refresh Token
       ↓
3. Both are sent/stored on client
       ↓
4. Client uses Access Token for API requests
       ↓
5. Access Token expires
       ↓
6. Client sends Refresh Token to /refresh-token
       ↓
7. Backend verifies Refresh Token
       ↓
8. Backend finds the user
       ↓
9. Backend checks the stored Refresh Token
       ↓
10. Generate a new Access Token
       ↓
11. Send new Access Token to client
       ↓
12. Client uses new Access Token

22)
User enters email
       ↓
Find user
       ↓
Generate reset token
       ↓
Save token + expiry in DB
       ↓
Send reset link to email
       ↓
User clicks link
       ↓
Reset password. 

Don't change the password in forgot password.
The forgot-password controller only:

finds user → generates token → saves token → sends reset link.

The reset-password controller will later verify that token and actually change the password.
