1) if you want to use import the file type is module , if require then 'commonjs' 

2) Setup project - use 'prettier' for configurations 
        - ".prettierrc " is the file for writing configuration 
        - ".prettierignore" dont touch the files written inside it 
    git init command for storing in git 
        - .gitignore file ( node modules , .env)

3) for constant restarting of your project
        - use nodemon as dev to constantly restart your server

4) install dotenv  - it is used to store configuration and sensitive info 
        - import it on the main entry page 
        - dotenv.config method : search for the env file (path : "./.env)
        - process.env.vname : is used to get any variable from the envfile

5) mkdir - used to create folder 
   cd - goes into the folder 
   cd.. - to go outside of the folder

6) index.js should be inside src 

7) Express - npm install express 
        - npm install express --save 
        - express is the node js web application framework , designed for building web applications and apis
        (Routing) - refers to how an application responds to client requests to specific endpoints using diff http methods
        routing methods are - 
                a) get - used to retrieve data from the server 
                        eg - "/blog" used to retrieve blog post 
                b) post - used when the clients sends new data to the server 
                        eg - user sign in  , create blog 
                c) put - means updating existing data 
                        eg - update profile , change password 
                d) delete - used to delete data ; 
        how it is used 
                - import express from "express" 
                  const app = express() 
                  app.get("/" , (req , res) => {
                        res.send("this is the home page")
                  })
                  app.listen(Port(.env) ,()=>{
                        console.log(`server is listening at the port ${Port}) ; 
                  })
8) Postman - we use postman to test our backend apis without needing a frontend

9) index.js is the main entry point so move express and its code to app.js
        - export default app from app.js and import it into index.js

10) Api response - class is a utility class that helps you send consistent API      responses from your Express server.

11) constant.js file - this file is used to define constants (fixed values) that   are used throughout your application.
        Instead of writing strings like "admin" or "todo" everywhere, you define them once and reuse them.
        This helps avoid typos, makes the code easier to maintain, and keeps values consistent.
 
        simply use - UserRolesEnum.ADMIN 

12) Mongoose is an ODM (object data Modeling Library) . It helps nodejs application communicate with mongoDB
        why async await :
                Connecting to a database takes time because:
                Your app contacts the MongoDB server.
                MongoDB verifies the connection.
                A network request is involved.
                So mongoose.connect() returns a Promise, which is why we use async/await 

13) HealthCheckApi - it is a simple api used to check whether the server is running and serving the requests or not 

        to avoid too many try and catch
         we use ' async handlers `
                const asyncHandler = (requestHandler) =>{
                        return ( req , res , next) => {
                                Promise.resolve(requestHandler(req, res, next))
                                .catch(next) ; 
                        }
                }

14) bcyrpt - hashes password . If someone steals your database , they cannot directly see user's password 
        use a pre function before saving user data , in which if a user has changed password then we will hash it .
        userSchema.pre("save", async function(){
                if(!this.isModified("password") return next()) 
                this.password = await bcyrpt.hash(this.password , 10) 
                next() ; 
        })
    Schema - tells that how every user should look like 

15) Mailgen Content is used to create html email
    Mailtrap for sending email 
        install nodemailer - it delivers email

